 Contributing 
 Utility
 For Developers
 About
 LOG IN
 Contributing
 Help us build AI for everyone
 First off, thank you for considering contributing to our project!
 The Public AI Inference Utility is the world's first public inference infrastructure for sovereign AI models like Apertus. We welcome contributors from around the world, whether you're a developer, designer, researcher, policymaker, organizer, or just curious.
 Start here
 If you have an issue with the site, fill out an issue in our GitHub
.
 If you want to contribute in other ways, drop a CV or bio into our 30-second contributing form: I want to contribute
.
 Developers
 Looking to help with backend, frontend, ops, or evaluation? Check out our Developer Guide
 for information on our architecture and platform.
 Key areas we need help on:
 Evaluation & monitoring
 Specialized telemetry and data pipelines to send (useful) data back to national labs and open source model builders
 Setting up (and getting something out of) Mixpanel or other kinds of product analytics
 Optimizing our authentication flow (we're using Amazon Cognito right now)
 Design and deploy a reputation system based on data contributions a.k.a. 'Public AI Plus/Pro'
 Load balancing and gateway configuration (we're using Zuplo)
 vLLM / HF CICD pipeline with national labs
 General chat UI improvements
 Technical documentation (!!)
 Or just add the H100 sitting in your basement to the utility
 Civic & Creative Contributors
 You don't need to write code to make a meaningful impact. We're especially looking for people who can:
 Run and manage distributed contributor teams (e.g. product, policy, or ops)
 ☝️ is especially important, because we need to coordinate other contributors
 Support design and storytelling
 Draft and communicate policy guidance, especially in local governments
 Help us build a community of contributors
 Organize more compute donations
 Code of Conduct
 We'll have a code of conduct soon. In the meantime, don't be a jerk.
 © Public AI Inference Utility    2025    All Rights Reserved 
 Terms and Conditions
    Contact Us
    University chapters
 