 Public AI Inference Utility 
 Utility
 For Developers
 About
 LOG IN
 Try Apertus
 ⛰️
 What's public AI? Was ist souveräne KI? C'est quoi, ce plan secret ultra top secret? 
 With 1.5x the love, from Switzerland
 July 24, 2026
 Apertus 1.5 adds image understanding, 4× longer context, and better tool use. Still fully open, now live on Public AI.
 Read the full story 
 Latest stories
 View all
 Behind the scenes with AWS Zurich and Intel
 June 16, 2026
 How Nicolas, Malte, and Diego helped us deploy public AI at national scale and built the layer that now helps host EuroLLM, ALIA, and more.
 Read more 
 🤗📡🤝
 September 16, 2025
 Julien and Simon's team just helped us launch as an official inference provider on Hugging Face!
 Read more 
 With love, from Switzerland
 September 2, 2025
 Imanol's team just launched Apertus, the most powerful open-source language model ever released by a public institution.
 Read more 
 We launched the Inference Utility!
 September 2, 2025
 A public access point for public and sovereign AI models.
 Read more 
 An Airbus for AI
 September 1, 2025
 Diane and her co-authors argue for a third way frontier lab for AI—built from existing national labs and national champions.
 Read more 
 If open source is to win, it must go public
 July 12, 2025
 Katherine and her co-authors argue that open source AI must be embedded within broader public AI infrastructures to truly democratize access to AI.
 Read more 
 About Public AI
 We're a nonprofit building products and organizing advocacy to support public AI model builders worldwide.
 Learn more about our mission 
 Call for Contributors
 It's launched! Now we really need your help. Just send PRs – it's all open source.
 Start contributing 
 Our Partners
 Powered by models and compute from leading institutions and organizations.
 Interested in joining? Apply to become a model
 or inference
 partner.
 FAQ
 Common questions about the Public AI Inference Utility
 Is Public AI a foundation model or did you build Public AI on top of existing foundation models like Llama, Mistral, DeepSeek? 
 How can I get involved? 
 Do you have more technical information about the model and setup? Like how big the context window actually is. 
 What's your roadmap? 
 How do I delete my account? 
 Where is my data processed and stored? 
 What kind of privacy guarantees do I have? 
 Do you have any link with publicai.io and their crypto coin or publicai.com? 
 I don't see any environmental objectives on your website. I understand it's not your primary concern, but was wondering what steps, if any, you take to minimize your environmental footprint. 
 I'm a researcher. How can I get access to your data? 
 What is Public AI Plus? 
 What's with some of the photos on your stories? 
 By the people, for the people
 GET STARTED
 © Public AI Inference Utility    2025    All Rights Reserved 
 Terms and Conditions
    Contact Us
    University chapters
 